Interfaces are open.
You may have heard this before if
you've read a TypeScript book or
something like it.
So let's explore what that means.
So we've got a function called feed,
and we feed an animal.
And in our case,
AnimalLike just has this eat method on it,
but let's say that we wanna do this.
This is a little morbid, sorry.
Something like that.
We have no isAlive method here.
And let's say we were importing this alias
from a library where we can't go and
change it, necessarily, but
we wanna sort of augment it.
Well, the fact that interfaces
are open means that we can have
a second declaration here.
You know how if we were to
create a variable x and
then another variable x right below it,
another declaration of the same name,
JavaScript, ESLint would bark at you for
that, TypeScript certainly will.
You're not allowed to redeclare most
things, but you can redeclare interfaces.
And what ends up happening is all of
the interface declarations kind of get
smushed together.
And it's important to understand
that when we do this,
we're doing this everywhere
the AnimalLike interface is used,
meaning, because this is now in this
file and TypeScript has read this.
If we go back up here to our other
AnimalLike stuff, we've got Dog2.
Oops, I think we had
isAlive in there as it was.
But just the way I want you to think
about it is there's one place where
the compiler is keeping track of
what does it mean to be AnimalLike.
And what we've done here is effectively,
we have modified that
everywhere AnimalLike is used.
It's this one central thing, and
everywhere we see AnimalLike,
it now has isAlive.
This is useful because sometimes
you get a type from a library or
a type from the built-in things,
the types that describe the JavaScript
programming language, like that promise
type that we were just looking at.
And maybe you wanna add something to it.
Well, you can do that
with open interfaces.
You can kind of stack things on
top of an existing interface.
So let's look at that use case where
we're augmenting existing types.
So here we've got window,
which is if you're writing code for
a browser, like window.cookie here,
window.document,
right, it's this global object
that's available to you.
And if we wanted to add a property
to window, I wouldn't advise
doing this too much like globals
programming is fraught, but
say you wanted to do something here,
add an example property.
Well, we could do this, and there's some
syntax here we haven't explained yet, but
I'll walk through it.
What we're saying here is we
want to make a declaration
of an interface in the global scope,
right?
This is not just in this one file,
we want to add some types
to the scope called global.
Well, it's where setTimeout lives or
the promise constructor,
things that are available.
Any module you write, you always have
these things at your fingertips, right?
Right, setTimeout, setImmediate,
they are in a global scope.
In fact, they're on, They're on Window or
on global if you're in Window.
So now we're saying, all right, Window,
the interface Window has a property
on it called exampleProperty,
which is a number, and look, that type
error we had here before, it went away.
So if we comment this line out, it's like,
exampleProperty does not exist.
Well, we can make it exist.
We can say, look,
I'm gonna put something here.
Let me put it there.
Let me tell you what the type is.
So we're using open interfaces to augment
an existing type, which is pretty cool.
You cannot do this with a type alias.
Interfaces are open, type aliases are not.
If we were to go back to,
where's the type alias here?
Here.
It's a duplicate identifier,
we're not allowed.
So it's a special feature
of interfaces and
it's very, very useful for
cases like this.
All right, last thing we're gonna
describe here, which we'll need for
our exercise, which is coming
up in a moment, recursive types.
So let's say we have a data structure
that we wanna represent here, and
let's call it NestedNumbers, which can be
a number or an array of nested numbers.
There's your recursion right there.
>> Is there a way to see the full
implementation of an interface locally?
>> Yes.
>> Do you have to track down
all the instances of the interface and
keep a mental model?
>> Okay, good question, so
Anthony asks, can we see the full
implementation of an interface or
do we have to track everything down?
The answer is sort of in between.
It's not as bad as you'd think, promise.
Yeah, maybe there's something
weird with globals.
All right, so
I just Cmd clicked on promise, and
look at what's open here on the right.
I have a bunch of different
files that describe interfaces.
And look at this, I've got 2015,
there's something.
There's es5, there's a promise.
And there's something in 2018.
It's almost like different releases
of the JavaScript programming
language might layer more and
more things on top of promise.
So if we look at 2018,
there's the finally.
Finally came with es2018,
so, To kinda answer your question, yes,
it's true that there are multiple
declarations of an interface.
But VS Code in particular has done
a pretty great job at letting you quickly
find all of those declarations and
sort of cycle through them and
see if that's the one you want,
or you go look at this one.
This is the variable for promise, right?
It's a promise constructor that kind
of describes this promise, right?
It's the promise that I'm invoking,
not the instance that comes back.
It's a class, right, the constructor.
So yeah, things are separated
into different declarations,
but they're all there if you Cmd click.
>> Since the interfaces are open, will
it throw an error in other files, too?
>> Yeah, that's a very good question.
So Luis asks, since interfaces are open,
will it throw an error in other files,
too?
It will, that is a corollary that falls
out of what I was saying where there's
one place where TypeScript keeps
track of what these interfaces are.
So in the case of promise, right,
where we saw all of those declarations,
every promise, including everything in
your Node modules that deals with this
concept of promise,
they all have .finally on them.
They're all working with the same type.
Type checking is a holistic operation
that happens on your entire program.
You could think of it, it's like
happening at once at the same time.
It's kind of hard to imagine, but we don't
have a debugger that we can put in there.
It's just type checking happens,
it's evaluated, and
it either works or doesn't work.
And there's one definition
of each type in memory.
It's like a source of truth.
And when we use interfaces,
we are kind of updating or
adding to that single source of truth for
each type.
So yeah,
if you augment an interface in a way that
is unfriendly to other code,
it could cause problems.
But it's additive,
I don't think that we could do this.
Yeah, we can't do this.
There is already a declaration for
a document.
So we can't override document and
make everybody think it's a number
instead of the document object.
So you can't really stomp on things that
already exist, but you can add to them.
And so it doesn't really result in
that much breakage in practice.
But it could, if you were checking for the
presence of this property on Window and
you always relied on it not being there,
and now it's there,
a typeguard could flip
in another direction.